# Working with Templates

As we may have learned when we were first exposed to JavaScript, we can use JS to add, remove, and modify elements from the DOM. This is a very powerful capability, but it quickly becomes tedious to write all of those `document.createElement()` statements and properly combine multiple levels of HTML tag hierarchy. In addition to the repetitive strain of creating elements individually, it's possible to hurt the performance of our applications with DOM manipulation.

Changing elements in the DOM is an intense process for our computing devices. If we change elements often, or if we change many elements on the screen, then we can slow down the functioning of our site and the web browser (and possibly our entire computer). The reason for this performance issue is that many DOM manipulations cause the web browser to re-render the entire page. When that happens there is a (potential) risk of serious impacts on your device performance while the rendering is taking place. Because of the performance risk coupled with the tedious nature of manually manipulating the DOM, we have created templating systems that can help with both of these problems.

Using a template allows us to define an HTML structure and use placeholder "template tags" to represent data we want to output. The template can be processed by our chosen application framework and handled in a way that is somewhat more intelligent than how we might otherwise write our DOM manipulations. In the case of Vue.js, the templating system uses a "virtual DOM" that allows the JavaScript system to calculate all the changes that would happen in the DOM and then apply them in one chunk. That process minimizes the number of times the page must be re-rendered, which makes for a more performant experience. The user will perceive the site as being faster, and it is less likely to cause slowdown issues on our user's computer.

